本报记者 裴昱 北京报道在复杂的外部环境和新冠肺炎疫情冲击下，全球经济复苏面临下行压力。更高水平的自由贸易协定有利于稳定经贸关系，促进经济往来。4月7日，恰逢中国和新西兰自由贸易协定（FTA）升级版正式生效实施，新西兰驻华大使傅恩莱接受了《中国经营报》记者的专访，在她看来，升级后的中新自贸协定，是新西兰政府实施贸易复苏战略的一部分。2008年签署的中新自贸协定是中国与发达国家签署的第一个自贸协定，协定生效后，中新双边贸易额从2008年的44亿美元增长至2020年的181亿美元，年均增速14%。中国已连续多年成为新西兰第一大贸易伙伴和第二大外资来源国。傅恩莱认为，中新自贸协定使两国受益，协定完成以来的14年里，国际自贸协定与商业实践都发生了变化。双方以升级谈判为契机，确保中新自贸协定与时俱进，并确保两国的进出口企业和消费者能够在最大程度上获益。《中国经营报》：《中国—新西兰自由贸易协定升级议定书》今日正式生效实施，你认为这将对两国经贸关系带来哪些影响？傅恩莱：《新西兰—中国自由贸易协定》（FTA）使新中两国受益，已成为我们两国之间增进经贸关系的催化剂。在自贸协定完成后，随着时间的推移，中国已成为新西兰最大的贸易伙伴。自2008年自贸协定签署以来，双向贸易（货物与服务进出口）从90亿新西兰元增长到380亿新西兰元以上，增长了3倍以上。升级版自贸协定为两国延续既往的成功奠定了坚实的基础。新中自贸协定完成以来的14年里，国际自贸协定与商业实践都发生了变化。双方以升级谈判为契机，确保新中自贸协定与时俱进，并确保两国的进出口企业和消费者能够在最大程度上获益。例如，升级版协定涵盖了竞争政策、电子商务、政府采购等领域做出的新承诺，以及现代化的原产地规则。《中国经营报》：新冠肺炎疫情肆虐，全球经济复苏乏力的形势下，中新自贸协定升级版实施能否为全球经济带来新的增长点？傅恩莱：《新西兰—中国自由贸易协定升级议定书》生效之际，正值新冠疫情导致供应链受阻，全球经济遭受严重干扰。对于新西兰来说，新的贸易协议——包括升级版新中自贸协定——是政府实施的贸易复苏战略的一部分，以应对疫情对经济的多重冲击。我们相信，在新中两国经济不断应对疫情影响的过程中，升级版协定将有助于打造稳固的经济基础。由于疫情期间限制旅行，我们两国之间的服务贸易遭受了沉重的打击，尤其是旅游和教育行业。不过，货物贸易在过去的两年里展现出强大的韧性。此次升级将有助于推动货物贸易进一步增长。当时机到来、人们能够更加自由地跨境旅行时，我们也希望看到旅游业、教育业迎来复苏，人员往来得以恢复。《中国经营报》：新西兰是世界最大的乳制品出口国，根据自贸协定升级版，2024年将免除部分新西兰乳制品关税，你认为这对两国的产业影响如何？能为中国消费者带来哪些利好？傅恩莱：2008年签署的原版自贸协定取消了新西兰绝大部分乳制品的关税，并定于2024年取消对少量乳制品的剩余关税及保障措施。升级版强化了这一承诺。中国消费者可以继续享用由新西兰乳企和中国乳企在新西兰境内生产的安全、优质、营养丰富的乳制品。《中国经营报》：双方承诺将促进环境保护，请问两国在环境保护、双碳目标等方面将有哪些合作？傅恩莱：升级版自贸协定新增了一个章节，旨在促进环境合作，并确保环境标准不得用于贸易保护主义之目的。在针对2008年原版自贸协定进行谈判的过程中，现行的环境合作协定当时也处于谈判过程中，升级版协定的新章节以现行的环境合作协定为基础，并对其做出了补充。按照升级版协定中关于环境与贸易的承诺，将要求缔约方有效执行其环境法律法规，不得为了鼓励贸易或投资而削弱其环境措施。按照评估条款规定，新西兰和中国将评估本协定的实施对环境造成的影响，并适时报告相关影响。新西兰和中国在气候变化领域展开合作。2017年商定的《新西兰—中国应对气候变化行动计划》，有助于落实2014年签署的《新西兰—中国应对气候变化合作安排》。2019年，阿德恩总理和李克强总理举行会晤，并发表联合声明，其中明确了双方持续开展气候变化合作的相关领域。《中国经营报》：教育领域的优惠政策，将对中新两国的教育合作带来什么影响？傅恩莱：近年来，中国进一步开放服务业，并在新的服务领域做出承诺，两国的2008年版自贸协定并未包含这些承诺。此次升级涵盖了这些承诺，而且并未止步于此，为服务供应商们在我们两国市场创造了新机遇。服务章节为新西兰和中国之间的跨境服务贸易提供了便利，涉及环境、工程、建筑、教育服务领域。在教育领域，升级版协定有助于新西兰保持其作为留学目的地的竞争力，吸引中国学生赴新留学，升级也为新西兰企业在中国境内提供教育服务创造了机会。协定还为更多的中文教师在新西兰执教提供了机会。《中国经营报》：你如何评价当前中新经贸关系的开放水平？你认为未来中新双方在哪些领域还有进一步扩大开放的空间？傅恩莱：正如阿德恩总理所说，对华关系是新西兰最重要的关系之一。我们的贸易关系是互补的、互惠互利的。在2008年自贸协定项下，以货物出口额计，目前新西兰98%的货物可以零关税进入中国。在此基础上，升级版协定进一步放开了商品与服务的市场准入、引入了更多的贸易便利化措施。中国的产品同样以零关税出口到新西兰。两国贸易关系共同架构中的另一大亮点，是于2020年签署、今年初生效的《区域全面经济伙伴关系协定》（RCEP）。整体而言，RCEP成员占全球人口的近三分之一，新西兰一半以上的出口流向了RCEP成员经济体。除了以上提到的这些重要的政策成果以外，虽然疫情带来诸多挑战，新西兰多个部门持续与中方展开密切合作，在贸易、农业、科学、教育等领域举行正式的双边会谈，以促进贸易往来，巩固关系；并在双方共同感兴趣的领域展开合作，例如维护必需品供应链、在改善营商环境方面分享经验等。以下为英文采访记录：China Business Journal：The “Protocol to Upgrade the China-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement” will come into effect on April 7， 2022． What impact do you think this will have on the economic and trade relations between the two countries？Clare Fearnley：The New Zealand-China Free Trade Agreement （FTA） has benefitted both New Zealand and China． It has been a catalyst for growth in trade and economic relations between out two countries．In the period since the FTA wa concluded， China has become New Zealand’s largest trading partner． Two-way trade （exports and imports of goods and services） has more than tripled from $9 billion NZD to over $38 billion NZD since the free trade agreement was signed in 2008． The FTA Upgrade provides a sturdy platform for both sides to keep building on this success．Free trade agreements and business practices have evolved since the FTA was concluded 14 years ago． Our negotiations to upgrade the FTA have been an opportunity to ensure our bilateral FTA remains up to date – and that it delivers the best deal for trading firms in both countries， and ultimately for consumers． For example the Upgrade includes new commitments on areas like competition policy， e-commerce， and government procurement， while rules of origin have been modernised．China Business Journal：COVID has been rampant， can the implementation of the upgraded version of the China-NZ Free Trade Agreement bring new growth to the global economy？Clare Fearnley：The entry into force of the Upgrade to the New Zealand-China Free Trade Agreement comes at a time of considerable global economic disruption， due to COVID-19 related supply chain challenges． For New Zealand， new trade instruments such as the Upgrade are part of the Government’s Trade Recovery Strategy， in response to the economic shocks of COVID-19． We believe the Upgrade will help build shore-up economic underpinnings as our two countries’ economies continue to work through the impacts of COVID-19．While services trade between our two countries， especially tourism and education， was hit hard by COVID-19 travel restrictions， goods trade showed strong resilience over the last two years． This Upgrade will help facilitate more goods trade． We also hope to see a recovery in tourism， education， and people-to-people links when the time is right for freer international travel．China Business Journal：New Zealand is the world‘s largest exporter of dairy products． According to the upgraded version of the Free Trade Agreement， some New Zealand dairy products will be exempted from tariffs in 2024． How do you think this will affect the industries of the two countries？ What benefits can it bring to Chinese consumers？Clare Fearnley：The original China-New Zealand FTA signed in 2008 removed tariffs on most New Zealand dairy products， and set a date of 2024 for the removal of the remaining tariffs and safeguards for a small number of dairy products． The Upgrade reinforces this commitment．Chinese consumers will continue to enjoy safe， high quality and nutritious dairy products manufactured in New Zealand by both New Zealand and Chinese dairy companies．China Business Journal：The two sides promised to promote environmental protection． What kind of cooperation will the two countries have in environmental protection and dual carbon goals？Clare Fearnley：A new chapter has been added to the upgraded FTA to promote environmental cooperation and to ensure that environmental standards are not used for trade protectionist purposes． It builds upon and complements the existing environmental cooperation agreement that was negotiated alongside the original free trade agreement in 2008．The upgrade’s commitments on environment and trade will require the Parties to effectively enforce their environmental laws， and not to weaken them in order to encourage trade or investment．The review provisions will also provide for our two countries reviewing the impact of implementing the FTA on the environment， and report on any effects over time．New Zealand and China cooperate on climate change． The New Zealand-China Climate Change Action Plan， which was agreed in 2017， gives practical effect to the New Zealand-China Climate Change Cooperation Arrangement signed in 2014． When Prime Minster Ardern and Premier Li met in 2019， they adopted a joint statement identifying areas for on-going climate change cooperation．China Business Journal：What impact will the preferential policies in the field of education have on the educational cooperation between China and NZ？Clare Fearnley：In recent years， China has further opened-up its services economy and made commitments in new services sectors not covered in our 2008 free trade agreement． The Upgrade reflects these commitments and goes further， creating new opportunities for service suppliers in both of our countries markets．The Services Chapter facilitates cross-border trade in services between New Zealand and China， including environmental， engineering， architectural， and educational services sectors．In the field of education， this supports New Zealand remaining competitive as a destination for Chinese students wishing to study abroad， and it also provides opportunities for New Zealand companies to deliver educational services in China． The agreement also provides scope for more Chinese language teachers in New Zealand．China Business Journal：How do you evaluate the current level of openness in China-NZ economic and trade relations？ In what areas do you think China and New Zealand will have further co-operation？Clare Fearnley：As Prime Minster Ardern has said， New Zealand’s relationship with China is one of our most significant． Ours is a trade relationship that is complementary， and from which both sides benefit．Already， 98 percent of New Zealand’s current goods exports by value have duty-free access to China under the 2008 FTA． The Upgrade builds on that further with new goods and services market access and trade facilitation measures． China’s products also enter New Zealand tariff free．Another highlight in terms of the shared architecture of our trading relationship was the signature in 2020 of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership， and its entry into force earlier this year． Collectively， the RCEP membership accounts for nearly a third of the world’s population， and over half of New Zealand’s exports go to RCEP partners．Aside from these important policy achievements， New Zealand agencies have continued to work closely with Chinese counterparts to support the flow of trade， despite the challenges posed by COVID-19， through formal bilateral talks that underpin the relationship， from trade to agriculture， to science and education； as well as cooperating in areas of shared interest， such as maintaining supply chains for essential goods， and sharing experiences on improving the business environment．责任编辑：李墨轩